```
Title: Process Management
```

`Process management` describes the starting, pausing, resuming, and terminating of processes. 

---
<h1>Context Switching</h1>
Consider a system with a one-core CPU. Many processes may be able to use the CPU, but only one process
may actually use the CPU at any given time. In practice, each process uses the CPU for a small fraction of a
second, then pauses; then another process uses the CPU for another small fraction of a second; then another
process takes a turn, and so on. The act of one process giving up control of the CPU to another process is
called a context switch. 

---

Each priece of time - called a `time slice` - gives a process enough time for significant computation, (nd indeed,a process often finishes its current task during a single slice). 

---

The system appears to be running multiple processes at the same time (a capability known as multitasking).

---

Kernel is responsible for ```context switching.```

---

To understand how this works, let’s think about a situation in
which a process is running in user mode but its time slice is up. Here’s what happens:

1. The Cpu (hardware) interrupts the current process based on an internal timer, switches into kernel mode, and hands control back to the kernel.
2. Kernel records the current stae of the CPU and memory, which will be essential to resuming the process that was just interrupted. 
3. Kernel performs any tasks that might have come up during the preceding time slice (such as collecting data from input and output, or I/O, operations).
4. Kernel is now ready to let another process run. The kernel analyzes the list of processes that are ready to run and chooses one.
5. Kernel prepares the memory for this new process, and then prepares the CPU.
6. Kernel tells the CPU how long the time slice for the new process will last.
7. Kernel switches the CPU into user mode and hands control of the CPU to the process.
---

Kernel runs between process time slices during a context switch.

---

